MS5637 Barometric+Pressure+Sensor
=================================

.. seo::
    :description: Instructions for setting up MS5637 Barometric Pressure Sensor
    :image: ms5637.jpg
    :keywords: MS5637

The ``ms5637`` sensor platform allows you to use your MS5637
(`datasheet <http://www.te.com/commerce/DocumentDelivery/DDEController?Action=showdoc&DocId=Data+Sheet%7FMS5637-02BA03%7FB1%7Fpdf%7FEnglish%7FENG_DS_MS5637-02BA03_B1.pdf%7FCAT-BLPS0037%20>`__,
`PiicoDev`_) barometric pressure sensor with ESPHome. The :ref:`I²C <i2c>` is required to be set up in
your configuration for this sensor to work.

.. _PiicoDev: https://core-electronics.com.au/piicodev-pressure-sensor-ms5637.html

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Example basic configuration
    sensor:
      - platform: ms5637
        pressure:
          name: MS5637 Pressure

Configuration variables:
------------------------
- **pressure** (*Required*): The information to setup the pressure sensor.

  - **name** (**Required**, string): The name for the pressure sensor.
  - **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Set the ID of this sensor for use in lambdas.
  - All other options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

- **temperature** (*Optional*): The information to setup the temperature sensor.

  - **name** (**Required**, string): The name for the temperature sensor.
  - **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Set the ID of this sensor for use in lambdas.
  - All other options from :ref:`Sensor <config-sensor>`.

- **resolution** (*Optional*): Set up sampling resolution for pressure and temperature sensors. 
  Note: both sensors are always read and require adc conversion time irrespective of what sensors are setup.
  In summary, resolution impacts each sensor's adc conversion time (1-17ms), sensor current draw (0.6-20uA)
  and for pressure resolution (0.1-0.02mbar). Given the pressure sensor error band is typically +/- 2mbar,
  the component's default resolution should meet the requirements of most applications. 
  For more details on resolution, refer to the datasheet.

  ``OSR_256``, ``OSR_512``, ``OSR_1024``, ``OSR_2048``, ``OSR_4096``, ``OSR_8192``. Defaults to ``OSR_2048``.

- **address** (*Optional*, int): Manually specify the I²C address of
  the sensor. Defaults to ``0x76``.

- **update_interval** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-time`): The interval to check the
  sensor. Defaults to ``60s``.


Advanced Configuration
----------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Example advanced configuration
    sensor:
      - platform: ms5637
        resolution: OSR_2048
        pressure:
          name: MS5637 Pressure
        temperature:
          name: MS5637 Temperature
        address: 0x76
        update_interval: 60s
      

See Also
--------

- :ref:`sensor-filters`
